I AM A LITTLE BOY, running through the fields as fast as I can. I feel
myself pursued by some invisible force, as though life itself is chasing
me. The race to see my dreams come true consumes me. Still, I find
myself distracted by the beautiful sunflowers along the path, tempting
me with their promises.

I look back at the field now, trying to see my past, but everything is just
a cloudy haze.

The beginning of my life was miserable by any standards. I grew up in
an orphanage with life’s deck stacked against me. Still, I did my best to
enjoy that life and create success where I could. Whenever I walked
the streets naively enjoying the day, I always liked to imagine what
was behind the faces of strangers passing by, trying to read them as I
might read a book. I enjoyed watching a mother walking the street
hand-in- hand with her child because I knew it was a priceless
commodity to have. I savored the sight of two brothers hugging each
other or two lovers holding hands frozen in a moment of endless love.
Most of all, I held faith in my parents, silently hoping they would come
back for me.

I sought ways to bear the loneliness around me, but it wasn’t easy.
Being alone in a crowded place is not the kind of solitude that inspires
youth. Many of the lonely souls around me—those left by parents who
should have naturally given the purest unconditional affection—
believed it was their fault for being rejected or left alone.

When I was young, I also thought some parts of me must change for
others to love me. There were ways I stayed true to myself, but I also
tried to be someone else. There were also people in my life that said
they saw signs of greatness in me, that I was a young budding star. I
wish these signs were as visible to me as they were to them.
Unfortunately, I didn’t see what they saw. I felt cursed by gender
confusion and sexual attraction that was deemed unacceptable. I tried
not to pay attention to what other people thought, but somehow it
mattered. I didn’t know who to be. So, I tried to be like those around
me. I tried to conform to the standard, but I was always different, and I
often felt guilty for it. No matter what I did, I felt less than average—
whatever being average was. I wasn’t normal, but I thought I should
be. So, I spent years trying to understand what ‘normal’ was. Of
course, some perspectives of normalcy remained eternal, bred deep in
society’s roots: enjoy your childhood, be good, don’t lie, respect your
parents, go to school, finish school, get a job, start your own family,
retire, and savor the rest of your life. Unfortunately for me, only a
minority of the people I knew could live up to that pattern.

So, I was left trying to reconcile the contradiction.

I struggled for a long time until I finally questioned the standard itself.
Who decided what was ‘normal’ anyway? The definitions of ‘normal’
are different from person to person. We all have unique beliefs,
religions, views, and attitudes because normal depends on individual
experiences. Having differences is what makes us normal. We are all
human. So many of our experiences are the same, but we are different
from one another too. If only we could find a way to come together and
get along with each other, we could see that it is easy to take what we
have for granted, to forget we had a childhood spent with doting
parents, or that we had opportunities in our lives that others didn’t. We
may even fail to care about the people who cared for us, regardless of
their circumstances, or that even though we might have once felt
wrapped up in misery, our lives eventually found love.

When we accept the complete picture of who we are, we can learn to
appreciate times of sorrow because we will remember to recognize joy
when it strikes us, and it will. I discovered that life is more than just
white and black. It is a spectrum full of color, vibrant and versatile for
those not bound by the chains of solely striving toward materialistic
gains, forgetting about the most valuable and unavailable purchases. I
was lonely as a little boy, but I also understood my life had a purpose.

I didn’t know the steps I would take to achieve my goals, but I knew I
was still alive because I kept moving forward. As long as I was working
toward my dreams, I was truly living.

I didn’t want to forget about the things that mattered. So, I spent my life
searching through books, songs, movies, experiences, and childish
experiments, exploring different belief systems and religions in an
attempt to unravel the meaning behind my pain and loneliness. In the
end, I learned and wish to remind everyone who may be doubting;
regardless of the number of days we have in front of us; family, love,
and acceptance are the things we all need. I always felt that little in life
is more valuable than a simple hug or word of consolation. Even with a
million other materialistic values around us, happiness cannot be
everlasting without others’ love and attention.

I have often wondered how it would be if everyone put their stories on
paper, making their lives eternal for others to feel their successes and
learn from their mistakes. If we learn from the world’s history, why
can’t we also learn from people’s individual stories? Perhaps we would
discover that being normal is just one of the ideas we don’t need and
that judging has no place in any conversation, regardless of how
pleasant our surroundings may be.

Now, I seldom reflect upon my history, not because I fear it might
haunt me, but because it does not tell me where I am going. Our
histories do not tell us who we are. We make ourselves by our choices.
I chose not to let the unfortunate circumstances of my past define me.

I did not make peace with what life gave me. Instead, I was inspired to
go further, beyond that unbearable state. Overcoming that history,
tearing it down, and denying it, I learned to go beyond it. Making goals
and striving to achieve them made my life worth living. Studying
anything new was the only thing that brought me joy. Finding a way to
be better, go further, learn, and later teach others who were willing to
learn—that was my way out.

Besides sharing my life experiences, I decided that writing my
‘Misadventures’ would be an excellent way to draw parallels within
cultures and religions. I think we all benefit when we find common
ground between us. The best we can do in life is to make every
experience count and maybe even help someone else while we do it.

I am not writing to be accepted, nor am I writing to be understood. I am
writing to share and show that every life counts, no matter how lonely it
may feel. Going back, dreaming, remembering, and recalling, I put my
experiences on paper, reviving every moment, breaking loose, telling
another story, and ultimately sharing the unique experiences of
someone who counts… me.
                                   I