Chernivtsi Orphanage on Fastivska Street where I grew up.

SURROUNDED BY THE MAGNIFICENT crown of the Carpathian
Mountains, Chernivtsi sat atop fertile soil on the upper course of the
river Prut. As the cultural, educational, and architectural hub of
Ukraine, the city suffered continued attacks by warriors and influxes of
refugees as the currents of many nations altered its destiny. Every new
conquest changed its history, and its people as various rulers selflessly
adapted it to fit their benefit or belief.

A heavy stream of conquerors ravaged the town, but I didn’t see scars
carved into the cobblestone streets. I saw something more. I loved
wandering and wondering who else had passed along the roads I
walked. I imagined that those feet were still there, traveling with me,
only caught up in another realm, repeating history by trying to fix what
is wrong and preserve what is right.
The city is a better place now. It is slowly blooming, finding its way to
survive and be free. Some of those currents of the past have stopped,
disappeared, or maybe we just forgot them behind the unusual peace
empty battlefields left in their place. Chernivtsi was one of those war-
torn places that seemed to hold a composure only occasionally
disturbed by its chilly wind.

Wherever I have traveled in my life, I have always longed to return and
see the sign outside the city entrance, saying “Chernivtsi,” but it wasn’t
always like that, not when I was a boy.

I once heard that Chernivtsi owes its name to the black color of the city
walls, built from dark oak layered with its black-colored soil. Like
something birthed from the soul of the land itself, a building with the
same kind of stoic composure stood on the outermost edge of the
town. Surrounded by shy crowns of flowers planted carefully by the
little hands of its residents, the Orphanage on Fastivska Street
reached toward the fading light of another day. As they worked with
discipline cut deep into their thoughts, anyone passing by could hear
their voices chanting:

Ravlik Pavlik, vysun rozhki, Dam tebe kusok kartoshkii Esli budet
malo, dam kusochek sala Ravlik Pavlik, show your antenna, If you do,
I will give you a piece of potato If it is not enough, I will give you a
piece of fat My voice stood out from the rest, singing to the snails,
hoping to see their antennas. With every rainstorm, they came out, and
I joined them. I removed my shoes and thought my shirt was too much
to wear. I longed for the awakening touch of moisture falling from the
sky, wondering how many other faces it bathed with its crisp
refreshment. Rain was one of the things I enjoyed the most. I loved
playing or watching television in the playroom I shared with dozens of
other curious orphans, but sometimes there were too many children
trying too hard to be happy. The rain was something I could enjoy
alone.
I was like everyone else on sunny days, trying to squeeze every bit of
happiness I could from my environment. No matter how innocent the
games, I enjoyed pushing limits and finding ways to test my wit and
strength. Our playground was old and well used, but I thought it was
magnificent. A steel rocket built for climbing stood glorious next to
swings, merry-go-rounds, and teeter-totters. The missile called to me,
daring me to abandon my contemplation of the flowing clouds and
accept its challenge.

In a few seconds, I was at the top, with my head held high. Taking a
deep breath, I puffed out my chest and stood bathed in pride. I reached
to touch the sky with one of my hands, but I was cut short. The sound
of my friends’ voices cut through the rays of sunshine that were
selflessly spotlighting my accomplishment.

“Quick, the headmaster is coming!”

Their words released the restless bird waiting in my chest. I felt it flutter
and come to life as I saw the headmaster coming toward me.

Then, as if struck with a brick on my head, I reacted. I swallowed the
bitter lump growing in my throat and rushed to find a way down from
the rocket.

Looking up again, I saw my friends running away from sure deten- tion,
but I would not be so lucky. I suddenly slipped and fell to the ground.
Uncomfortable warmth rushed through my head, melting the frozen
soil beneath me. The earthy smell of dirt and grass joined with the
severe vibration of pain, reminding me of bones I seldom considered,
bones that were still intact just minutes ago. The warmth I first felt in
my head now burst from my wrist, stretching the skintight as it swelled.
Finally, as all these sensations gathered into a single devastating
moment, my face twitched in pain, and an uncontrolled scream
escaped my lips.

“For God’s sake, Vitaly, what were you thinking, climbing up that
high?!” The headmaster’s voice was a perplexing blend of anger and
compassion as he helped me stand. Though he took me by the arm
that wasn’t injured, I could feel the bones in my wrist trembling in pain
and distress. I wanted to cry, but I kept the tears in the corners of my
eyes. As we entered the building, we passed my friends all huddled
together. I could see them wanting to renounce the guilt of running and
bury it deep by their silence. They tried to appear as excluded from the
story as my arm was from my body.

The headmaster Vasyl Ivanovych took me to the recovery room we
liked to call ‘the isolator.’ That day, it wasn’t a lonely place. Instead, it
was full of people who wanted to discover what had happened. The
pulsing, hot pain that echoed in my ears like a drumbeat joined their
worried voices—making my head spin.

The trauma of the moment, or maybe the pain and hospital-like
environment, took me back to growing up in the Peace Hospital
nursery, a baby boy, forgotten by his mother. Her name was Evheniya
Mykytivna, and she began her life in Russia on a bitingly cold day in
1941.

Born with her, Chernivtsi witnessed the birth of a second world war.
Tanks rumbled down narrow city streets, drowning out the sounds of
her first cries, wiping out her hopes and dreams with them.

I was born thirty-eight years later, in a small hospital painted with the
same gray carelessness as the war. I liked to imagine my birthday as a
magical day with pleasant expectations hanging above Chernivtsi.
Still, I suppose I was just another drop in the sea of humanity, one
more soul to explore, love, and suffer, just another crier echoing
through the hospital halls hoping to make history.

My mother later told me that I left her womb minutes after a shot of
vodka ran through her bloodstream. Neutralizing her pain with alcohol
was a deeply established habit. Its roots wrapped around her
damaged liver and into the cord that held us together for nine months. I
suppose we were never closer than we were at that time. My birth
severed that connection, and after a hearty scream, I was breathing
the world’s air. I did not have the rumbling tanks to overwhelm the
sound of my sorrow, but I began my journey crying, nonetheless.

The last thing my mother did for me before she left was to name me
‘Vitaly,’—with the accent on “a,” rather than the “i.” Though people
often mispronounce it, the meaning is unmistakable. Vitaly means “life”
or “the one with a desire to live,” and I suppose that my name was, in
fact, my destiny. It allowed me to find beauty in even the ugliest of
experiences.

I don’t think I consciously remembered my beginnings, but I dreamt of
what I wanted them to be. But it wasn’t night, and I wasn’t dreaming.
This time trauma enveloped me as I slipped in and out of memories,
traveling back and forth between the pain of my origins and the searing
agony in my wrist.

“Vitaly…. Vitaly…. Vitaly!” a faint voice called my name from what
seemed to be miles away.

My dreamless sleep was interrupted, and I tried to open eyelids that
felt heavier than rocks. A silhouette was gently leaning over my body,
trying to rouse me from a memory that felt too real to leave.

As the morning sun worked its way through the windows, a golden
glow wrapped itself around the silhouette, bathing the angel in a nearly
divine halo. A hoarse whisper escaped me, “Mom?”

“Vitaly. Wake up, Vitaly,” the clarifying nature of the chilly morning air
overtook the warmth of the vision as I recognized the chestnut curls of
Tamara Petrivna, a strict but thoughtful teacher at the orphanage. I
was glad to see my instructor but also worried about her judgmental
reaction. The fear of punishment overtook the dreams of a childhood I
never had, chasing the final remnants of who my mother might have
been from my mind. Finally, I came back into the moment and the
overwhelming pain of my broken wrist.
She saw I was awake, and her fear exploded, becoming the only life in
the room. “What did you do to yourself?” she asked, not posing the
question to me as much as she was to some elusive power that might
one day control my adventurous spirit.

Although I heard her question, I was overwhelmed with the feeling that
every answer I could give would be inappropriate or wrong. So I froze
like a captured animal, decided not to blink or move, keeping my voice
lodged somewhere between my brain and vocal cords.

“What were you thinking? Why would you climb that high, and then of
all things, jump from that God-forsaken piece of steel?” She walked in
circles in front of my bed, with her eyes nailed to the well-scrubbed
floor: She was angry, but I also noticed the worry in her eyes and that
her voice occasionally cracked beneath the bitterness and fright.

“You could have gotten out with more than just your arm broken… do
you know that? What if you….?” She stopped suddenly, unable to
continue. Sighing, she took a moment, looking at the freshly plastered
cast binding my wrist. She then continued decisively, “What would we
do if you ended up with a broken back or legs? Did you think about
that?” I could hear her vocal cords tightening as she fought to control
her tears.

After a moment, she continued in an even controlled tone, one painfully
void of emotion. For a moment, when she was so upset, she seemed
to see me as a mother might see her child. Concern overcame her, but
she stifled her affection. She was back again, a teacher speaking to a
wayward student. “There is someone outside who would like to see
you. I will leave you two alone for a while.”

Before she finished saying the words, I knew who it would be. She was
talking about Igor, the only other person I could understand without a
single word spoken. He entered the room, looking around to gather all
of the information he could. Today was his first time seeing the isolator.
It wasn’t mine.
Tamara Petrivna looked at him, “Please, try not to stay longer than half
an hour. Breakfast is about to start.” Then, she turned to cast a final
glance at me and left the room.

“Hey, Vitaly!” I could hear the guilt nearly burst from him as he nestled
himself at the bottom of my wrinkled bedding. “They told me I was
supposed to ask you how you feel, but I bet you feel horrible. I’m sorry
for not being there.”

I suddenly remembered that he wasn’t at the playground when I fell
from the rocket. I was unable to hide the smile this stirred. I was glad
he wasn’t one of the deserters who ran to protect themselves and not
me. Igor was always there for me. We had a special connection,
something more than I had with anyone else in the world. We were
linked together like we had known each other all our lives.

I tried to stop his guilt, “You don’t need to be sorry. You weren’t even
there, which is good. Everyone else ran away when they saw the
headmaster coming.” I was mad. They didn’t even care if I was okay,
but my curiosity about Igor overtook my worry, “Where were you
anyway?”

“I was in the garden, making dens,” he said, dropping his head to hide
the shame drawn on his face.

I started laughing uncontrollably. “Dens?!?! That sounds cool,” His
laughter soon joined mine, and I knew things would be okay again.
“We’ll make more dens together when I get out of here. Deal?”

He nodded, “Deal.”

We sat silently for a moment as kids sometimes do, waiting for the next
thing to say. Before we could come to it, a teacher entered, carrying a
breakfast tray. The food at the orphanage wasn’t always good, but
judging by the growling sound in my stomach, I guessed that anything
would taste delicious to me today.
Igor jumped from the bed, looking over the incoming tray, trying to
discover what we were having for breakfast. From the look in his eyes,
I could see he was hungry too.

He headed toward the door to find some food of his own, but he
stopped and turned at the last moment, almost to confirm I would be
okay. Then he smiled and said, “See you, Vitaly.”

I smiled back. That was all I needed, a smile from Igor and whether I
ended up in detention or not; I also knew I would be alright.
                                     3