Kids at the Summer Camp with our Instructor in the
    front. I am way on the back corner at the top on the left, hiding.

AFTER THREE DAYS IN THE ISOLATOR, I returned to my routine,
which meant spending more time with Igor and my other friends.
However, it also indicated I must return to my chores. I had an endless
list of duties, one of which was hand washing my clothes. It was painful
with an injury. I can still feel the sting of when the clothes got heavy, all
soaked in water and soap. Igor tried to help me, but he also had his
clothes to wash, and I didn’t want him to get a double round of laundry.
So, I pretended not to recognize his attention and worked quickly.

After finishing the laundry, it was time to take a shower. Holding soap
was a challenge, but I forgot about the pain as I knew there were rays
of sunshine outside my window, inviting me into the open air for a
playful afternoon with my friends. I smiled with anticipation as the
laughter and screaming of children playing catch, swinging, and
enjoying the teeter-totter broke the silence on Fastivska Street.
I would soon be dressed and with them again, deeply involved in
games, too busy to notice what anyone else was doing. I loved that
time when play was the only chore left on my long list of things to do,
but I still found myself distracted, repeatedly glancing at the gate,
expecting someone, anyone, to appear and take me home with them. I
liked to imagine that someone passing by our building would find the
playful screaming enjoyable and decide to enter the world of orphans
looking for a child to love. They rarely did. They continued with their
lives, not willing to admit the presence of the children they were leaving
behind. Still, I dreamed that all of us would have a home of our own
one day and that every one of my friends would forget what it meant to
be parentless.

As I made my way to the playground, Igor was already waiting for me. I
went straight to him, speaking in a mischievous whisper, “How about
we start digging?”

He smiled and followed me to the garden. I scrutinized the trees
behind us, hoping no one would see us leave, but the only thing
following us were more screams and laughter of children lost in their
adventures. Finally, we were safe to begin our next experiment.

Leaves covered the ground in the small orchard nestled next to an
empty side of the orphanage. Not many children played here as there
was nothing but the earth and the garden to entertain them. Enjoying
the quiet of nature was something both Igor and I loved. So we could
often find places like this where it was just the two of us and everything
nature had to offer.

Over the last year, the teachers at the orphanage had guided us
through each step of the flower’s journey, beginning with the seed. We
learned to collect their pistils in the fall and replant them. In spring, we
pruned and nurtured the garden’s growth by cleaning out the weeds
and watering them with buckets of water from the orphanage building.
We stood now, surrounded by the earthy fragrance of the garden we
had planted. Inhaling the scene around us was sweet and gratifying.
The fallen leaves danced with the mild aroma of the flowers, making
every one of my senses come to life.

I walked up to lean on a tree, taking a spot I thought was perfect for
our work. Igor was crouched in the shadows of the building, bent in
search of something. As he came into the light again, I saw he was
clumsily carrying scrapped objects he had found. They looked like
chunks of brick that had fallen from the orphanage walls and turned
out to be perfectly acceptable substitutes for shovels when we started
digging the hole for our den.

We were only halfway through making our perfect hiding place when I
began to feel random drops of rain land on my forehead. I ignored
them, wanting to finish the project we started. As the drops began to
multiply, I felt them tangle in my eyebrows before gathering to rest in
the corners of my eyes, but I kept digging.

“Do we stop now?” Igor asked.

“No,” I laughed, “We just dig faster until the rain starts pouring.” We
continued digging, and when Igor thought the den was ready, he
jumped in to see if both of us could fit. Igor wasn’t as small as I was,
but it was perfect. So, we started gathering the already damp leaves,
and after we collected a proper pile, we found branches to lay across
the top of the hole. After blanketing the sticks with the leaves, we hid
inside. Rain drummed atop the stockpile, creating a melody that
reminded me of someone I knew. That sound was the closest thing to
a lullaby I had heard in a very long time. It took me back to the times
when I was too small to sing to myself, a time when nurses probably
cradled me, giving me as much motherly love as they had to offer. I
didn’t know how young I was when my mother abandoned me. So, I
closed my eyes and pretended she was there, singing to me through
the rain.

The warmth of Igor’s body made my imaginings as tangible as they
could be, and his silence made me think that maybe he was also trying
to recall his mother’s voice. We lay together quietly, allowing the rain to
be our substitute for the comforting sound of a mother’s loving song. I
let the memory of a beautiful woman blind me as if this moment was a
piece of heaven. I felt it like the sun and the sky, the warm air I was
breathing, the earth beneath us, and the bed where I usually slept,
cuddling my pillow. I could almost hear her humming a divine melody I
had never heard before, making me dizzily intoxicated with the feeling
of unconditional love. I lay there knowing that even if the sky fell today,
I would be safe, sound, and sleeping peacefully.

After what felt like an eternity spent wrapped in my pleasant trance, I
was awakened by Igor’s voice telling me that we needed to go. The
rain had stopped. Still, the lullaby was playing in my head, mystifying
my thoughts with imagined memories of my mother. I tried to hold onto
every impression of her, modifying, recreating, and beautifying
everything I knew about her. I rewrote the stories I heard, putting her
on a throne made of unconditional devotion.

Only later, as I grew, would I see the real woman who was likely lying
in the rain-drenched streets, buried in the oblivion of alcohol.

Nevertheless, until that time came, I had a world where I made her
mine and where I was hers and where we loved each other. When I
wasn’t eating, working, or going to school, I spent most days with my
head wrapped in a dreamy mist of wishes, hopes, and expectations.
Every day I dreamed of falling asleep in her arms, our limbs crossed in
one warm unbreakable hug. I held hope until the very last second
when they would lock the doors against another day where she didn’t
come, and I would go to bed, clinging to a pillow wet with tears,
pretending it was the giant stuffed bear I always hoped she’d give me.

It was late as we rushed into the building. Tamara Petrivna was
already trying to chase the other children into their beds, threatening to
call the headmaster if they didn’t listen. So, she didn’t notice when we
came in later than everyone else, still covered in the dirt of our hiding
place. I snuck past her, watching her threats successfully work on
some of my friends. I never responded well to force, but I knew she
was trying her best, so I decided to oblige and head to bed.

Tiny needles coursed through my body, injecting exhaustion into my
head and making my eyelids heavy. As I undressed, I was unusually
silent, trying to ignore the voices of boys colliding around me and hold
tight to the memory of the rain lullaby instead. Mesmerized by thoughts
of my pillow and my only other chance to hug and be hugged, I wished
I was already out of my wet clothes and drowning my face in the warm
comfort of sleep.

As I climbed into bed, clamoring for the same comfort I felt only
moments ago in the den, I pulled the blanket over my head and lay on
my belly. I was almost entirely covering my pillow—the only thing that
separated me from the hard mattress beneath me. Memories of Igor’s
company clouded the cravings of my dreams as thoughts of my mother
faded from my mind, temporarily replaced by the feeling of genuine
warmth and safety that only exists when one person touches another.
                                   4