Sign at the entrance to Chernivtsi written in Cyrillic - Ukrainian

THE BEGINNING OF NOVEMBER 1979 reflected the air of
Communist Russia. It was almost always raining, and the weather
influenced my little town of Chernivtsi. On most days, you could only
see the bleak gray sky pouring its tears upon the face of the small
Ukrainian city. Still, the sun’s brightness would sometimes penetrate
the clouds and make its way down to earth. The people could feel
more than see the light because the sun didn’t just pierce the clouds. It
also penetrated the windows and the hearts of the people behind them.

Communism dictated its rules to the faithful people of Ukraine then.
Still, so gracious were those times when you could buy ice cream for
twenty Russian kopeks, or what would be two cents in America today.
It was a time when people had respect for each other, and nobody
swore or had the thoughts of hurting their neighbor when everybody
felt as though they were free, but they weren’t, not really. The shadow
of socialism still covered their hearts.
Not far from the center of the town lay a petite woman of thirty- eight.
She had blond hair, dark brown eyes, and tiny wrinkles that unfairly
aged her face. The clouds hung heavy outside her hospital window,
spreading as much gloom over her as they did the rest of the town.
The first days of November were the worst for her. She was sure she
couldn’t go on, and she still had to carry the child for who knew how
many more days.

Some might argue that the alcohol she consumed every day caused
her trouble. It was killing her, but it also saved her. It killed her pain and
gave her the strength to endure her suffering. She still had a lot of
power. She knew how to fight and win battles, which helped her
survive. She knew alcohol might damage the life growing inside her
but didn’t care. Without her daily dose, there was too much pain. So,
she drank. As much as she could, she drank.

She was selfish. There is no doubting that. She would not concern
herself with how to get money for food or clothes to wear. She would
not think of serving others or how to care for the child she carried. Her
only concern was surviving the pain of that day. She would drink, and
she would count the minutes until the blessed moment finally arrived—
a moment most would still count as the miracle of life. For her, it would
be the glorious gift of her freedom.

Peace Hospital silently whispered into the ears of its patients, “sleep,
sleep,” until the only sound you could hear was the drip of a faucet in
the far hall bathroom. Six hours of peaceful bliss were still drifting
aimlessly through the corridors when screams suddenly pierced the
stillness, bursting with fluorescent light from a single room to flood the
otherwise darkened hall. The screams drowned out the doctor and
nurses, who were doing everything they could to give this child its very
best chance at survival.

The mother lay crying and screaming, begging the doctor for just one
drink, “just a little something for the pain… please?!?!”
The doctor ignored her cries, dismissing her sickness to think only of
the child.

The nurses responded, begging her, “Please, remain calm. For the
sake of your baby.”

Her cries continued over their words. She didn’t care. She couldn’t
think of anyone or anything. Her pain was too great. So it was left to
the valiant effort of the doctor, nurses, and their overwhelming patience
to bring this sweet new life into the world.

“What will you call him?” the nurse asked the exhausted mother as
they reached to her with a swaddled baby boy in their arms.

After a moment of deafening silence, she accepted the child, an-
swering, “Vitaly.”

I was four kilograms when I was born, and as my name suggests, I
was full of life. Though I began on an artificial respirator and didn’t
grow as fast as the other babies, I gave life everything I had from the
very start.

They didn’t expect much from me, saying I had some kind of
dysfunction in my “Psycho System,” but even then, before I was
conscious enough to know, I was determined to succeed. I started to
walk when I was almost two and had already made tremendous
developmental improvements by the time, I was three. Life seemed to
stack the deck against me, but I was determined to overcome the
odds. I wouldn’t quit. Maybe I was like my mother that way.

Maybe I learned my courage from the woman that gave me life, but
that is all she gave. She walked out of the hospital without me that day.
She left, and I stayed with the doctors and nurses until I was a toddler,
old enough to attend the young children’s home with the other orphans.
When I moved to the Detski Dom, or what you might think of as
preschool, it was amazing to see so many children there. The hospital
nurseries were small. As an adult, I learned that there were over twenty
thousand young children in the USSR at that time who did not have
parents willing or able to care for them. Those children, like me, lived
in children’s homes until they were old enough to go to an orphanage.

I was one of about eighty children, thrust into a world where we all
needed love. Each of us was different, but with many stories that were
the same, getting all, we could from just a handful of educators. It
seemed we were left to begin our lives with a disadvantage. Still, we all
had our chance. In the end, it is what you do when you don’t have the
advantage that counts.
                                   2